[ELECTRONIC MUSIC]
ROB DODSON: Hey there
polycasters, Rob here.
One of the things that's kind
of confused me about Polymer's
data binding system,
is how it binds
to sub-properties of objects.
It seems like you should
be able to just create
a binding on an object
and its sub-property,
and update that in JavaScript,
and things would just magically
work.
But reality proves otherwise.
So today on Polycast
what I want to do
is go through how the
sub-property binding system
works and show you
how to do bindings
in your Polymer elements.
Let's check it out.
So here I've got a
pretty simple element
for displaying an
employee's manager.
And the first thing
I'm going to do
is just trim this
down to the bits
that we really want to focus on.
So we've got just our HTML and
just our JavaScript down here.
Now, I've got this
div and inside of here
I'm binding to user dot manager.
So I'm binding to this
sub-property of the user
object.
And what I can do is define
that user object here
on my elements prototype.
And I'm just going to have it
return this value object that
sets manager equal to Paul.
So, so far so good.
Let me drop in a button, so
that I can change this manager.
So I've got this button.
And when I tap it, it's
going to call change manager.
And when I implement
that function,
it's just going to set user,
this dot user's manager
property to Fred.
So we would expect--
over here on the right
I've got my element
here, we would
expect that when I click this
button this should update.
So let's go in there
and we'll click it.
And, yeah, nothing happens.
I'm just sort of clicking
it over and over again,
not getting anything.
Well, let's try something else.
Instead of trying to
set the sub-property,
let's actually just
replace the user object
with a completely new object.
Let's go over here and try that.
OK, so that does work, but why?
What is going on here?
Why are they different?
Well, if you remember
in the last video,
I mentioned that when you
create a binding like this,
Polymer is going
to do two things.
It's going to create
property effects
and it's going to create a
setter for that property.
So what happens is, when
I just completely replace
the user object, in that case
the setter is being called
and it's running through all
of our property effects just
like any other property.
But when I change a
sub-property on that object,
well, in that case there's
no reason to call the setter.
Because I haven't actually
said this dot user
equals something new.
So the setter is not firing,
therefore the property effects
are not running.
So what Polymer is doing, when
it sees this sort of binding,
is instead of binding directly
to that property it's creating
what it calls a path binding.
And so we've got this-- we've
got these property effects
and they know about
this path, but we
need to tell the system
that the path has updated.
And in order to do that,
Polymer has actually
implemented its own
method called notifyPath.
So we can go in and
we can imperatively
change our user dot
manager property,
and then we can tell the system
that this path right here
has updated, and we
can pass in that value.
And what Polymer
is going to go do
is it's going to look at
any of its property effects,
it's just going to
loop through them,
it's going to find any
of those property effects
that have this path
inside of them,
and it's going to
update those nodes
with this particular value.
And in fact, since this
is such a common task
that you would do,
Polymer actually gives you
this little helper method
called this dot set, which
will not only set the property
for you in JavaScript,
but will also call
notifyPath on your behalf.
Now the reason why Polymer
uses this approach,
versus creating a setter for
all of these sub-properties,
is that it would just be
really, really expensive
to try and create a setter
for every single sub-property
in any object.
You could imagine if you had
an object with like 1,000
sub-properties, that trying to
replace all those with setters,
if you had multiple
instances of those elements
and they all had
different objects,
the runtime cost would
be pretty massive.
So instead, as kind of a
compromise between ease
of use and performance,
we have these methods
that allow us to work
with these path bindings.
Now this is how you do it
imperatively, but let me also
show you how you can
do it declaratively
through a data binding.
Now, here I've got
the same element,
but this time, user dot manager
is bound to this paper input
field and it's also bound
to this div up here.
So, when I go and
I start typing,
it's going to update that
binding in both places.
And what's happening is,
under the hood when Polymer
sees that our paper
input is updating,
it checks this property
right here and it's like,
oh, I see that this
is a path binding.
I see that this is
some structured data.
I'm just going to go ahead
and call this dot set
on the user's behalf,
because I figure
that's what they wanted to do.
So there's two ways
that you can go
about updating sub-properties.
You can either use
Polymer's helper methods
or you can, if you happen
to be in a situation
where you can do this, you
can also set up data bindings
and have it update
that way as well.
So now you know a bit more
about binding to objects
in your Polymer elements.
But there's a lot of
really cool, meaty topics
which we haven't covered
yet, like binding
to arrays, and change records,
and all that cool stuff.
But I'm going to save all
that for the next episode.
Now, for those of you who are
wondering what a half-pipe has
to do with data bindings.
Half-pipe has nothing to
do with data bindings.
I just found a freaking
half-pipe next to my office.
This giant chute here.
So, if you've
enjoyed this episode,
you've enjoyed our
half-pipe, consider
clicking that subscribe
button, and maybe catch us
on the next episode of Polycast.
As always, thank you for
watching and I'll see you
next time.